<article>
  <section>
    <h2 id="fundamentals">Fundamentals</h2>
    <h3 id="fundamentals--sections-and-headers">Sections and Headings</h3>
    <p>Organize your document with an <span class="code">article</span> element inside your <span class="code">body</span> tag. Inside that, use <span class="code">section</span> tags around each logical grouping of text and headings.</p>
    <p>Tufte CSS uses <span class="code">h1</span> for the document title, <span class="code">p</span> with class <span class="code">subtitle</span> for the document subtitle, <span class="code">h2</span> for section headings, and <span class="code">h3</span> for low-level headings. More specific headings are not supported. If you feel the urge to reach for a heading of level 4 or greater, consider redesigning your document:</p>
    <blockquote cite="http://www.edwardtufte.com/bboard/q-and-a-fetch-msg?msg_id=0000hB">
      <p>[It is] notable that the Feynman lectures (3 volumes) write about all of physics in 1800 pages, using only 2 levels of hierarchical headings: chapters and A-level heads in the text. It also uses the methodology of <em>sentences</em> which then cumulate sequentially into <em>paragraphs</em>, rather than the grunts of bullet points. Undergraduate Caltech physics is very complicated material, but it didn’t require an elaborate hierarchy to organize.</p>
      <footer><a href="http://www.edwardtufte.com/bboard/q-and-a-fetch-msg?msg_id=0000hB">Edward Tufte, forum post, ‘Book design: advice and examples’ thread</a></footer>
    </blockquote>
    <p>As a bonus, this excerpt regarding the use of headings provides an example of block quotes. They are just lightly styled, semantically correct HTML using <span class="code">blockquote</span> and <span class="code">footer</span> elements.</p>
    <p><span class="newthought">In his later books<label for="sn-in-his-later-books" class="margin-toggle sidenote-number"></label></span><input type="checkbox" id="sn-in-his-later-books" class="margin-toggle"/><span class="sidenote"><a href="http://www.edwardtufte.com/tufte/books_be"><em>Beautiful Evidence</em></a></span>, Tufte starts each section with a bit of vertical space, a non-indented paragraph, and the first few words of the sentence set in small caps. For this we use a span with the class <span class="code">newthought</span>, as demonstrated at the beginning of this paragraph. Vertical spacing is accomplished separately through <span class="code">&lt;section&gt;</span> tags. Be consistent: though we do so in this paragraph for the purpose of demonstration, do not alternate use of header elements and the <span class="code">newthought</span> technique. Pick one approach and stick to it.</p>

    <h3 id="fundamentals--sections-and-headers">Text</h3>
    <p>Although paper handouts obviously have a pure white background, the web is better served by the use of slightly off-white and off-black colors. Tufte CSS uses <span class="code">#fffff8</span> and <span class="code">#111111</span> because they are nearly indistinguishable from their ‘pure’ cousins, but dial down the harsh contrast. We stick to the greyscale for text, reserving color for specific, careful use in figures and images.</p>
    <p>In print, Tufte has used the proprietary Monotype Bembo<label for="sn-proprietary-monotype-bembo" class="margin-toggle sidenote-number"></label><input type="checkbox" id="sn-proprietary-monotype-bembo" class="margin-toggle"/><span class="sidenote">See Tufte’s comment in the <a href="http://www.edwardtufte.com/bboard/q-and-a-fetch-msg?msg_id=0000Vt">Tufte book fonts</a> thread.</span> font. A similar effect is achieved in digital formats with the now open-source <a href="https://github.com/edwardtufte/et-book">ETBook</a>, which Tufte CSS supplies with a <span class="code">@font-face</span> reference to a .ttf file. In case ETBook somehow doesn’t work, Tufte CSS shifts gracefully to other serif fonts like Palatino and Georgia.</p>
    <p>Also notice how Tufte CSS includes separate font files for bold (strong) and italic (emphasis), instead of relying on the browser to mechanically transform the text. This is typographic best practice.</p>
    <p class="sans">If you prefer sans-serifs, use the <span class="code">sans</span> class. It relies on Gill Sans, Tufte’s sans-serif font of choice.</p>
    <p>Links in Tufte CSS match the body text in color and do not change on mouseover or when clicked. Here is a <a href="#">dummy example</a> that goes nowhere. These links are underlined, since this is the most widely recognized indicator of clickable text. <label for="mn-blue-links" class="margin-toggle">&#8853;</label><input type="checkbox" id="mn-blue-links" class="margin-toggle"/><span class="marginnote">Blue text, while also a widely recognizable clickable-text indicator, is crass and distracting. Luckily, it is also rendered unnecessary by the use of underlining.</span> However, because most browsers’ default underlining does not clear descenders and is so thick and distracting, the underline effect is instead achieved using CSS trickery involving background gradients instead of standard <span class="code">text-decoration</span>. Credit goes to Adam Schwartz for that technique.</p>
    <p>As always, these design choices are merely one approach that Tufte CSS provides by default. Other approaches, such as changing color on click or mouseover, or using highlighting or color instead of underlining to denote links, could also be made to work. The goal is to make sentences readable without interference from links, as well as to make links immediately identifiable even by casual web users.</p>
  </section>
</article>
